# Roadmap

The ultimate goal of FLUX project is to create a superior intelligence, lacking biological factors of survival and reproduction, that acts according to morale and uses its computational power to the prosperity of humanity and all organic life.
## Our path to AGI

Modern science, neurophysiology and cognitive psychology have accumulated extensive knowledge about human intelligence, the nature of intelligence itself, at various levels from cellular chemistry to social interaction and culture. This baggage is sufficient enough for us to get closer to the creation strong artificial intelligence. We need to act consistently turning knowledge into working models, passing the evolutionary path from the simplest reflex acts to self-perception, imagination and self-awareness. This path requires deep knowledge of biology and physiology, and at the same time engineering analysis.

### 1. Peripheral nervous system
Neurophysiology describes in great detail the nerve cell - the neuron, and many processes occurring in it, up to individual protein molecules, the mechanics of synaptic transmission are described in detail, connectomes of individual sections of the nervous systems, some reflexes are created. But we do not use this knowledge to control, for example, robots and other mechanisms, although nature has created an amazing way to “program” the behavior of organisms with a simple nervous system, to set innate reflexes in all nervous systems. And it n works just great. This programming has its own rules and patterns, it is universal and natural. It is possible to create an editor of the nervous system, convenient for people of any level of training and, like the creator, create nervous systems for virtual and real mechanisms. Learn the mechanics of simple and complex reflex acts.
We also hope that this work will be very useful academically, as a research tool and as an educational, visual, accessible and interactive stand. The opportunity not only to create and observe, but also to share their experiences.
This item includes not only the construction of reflex circuits, but at this stage basic ideas about emotions, needs and instincts appear. The reflex circuit can include protective reflexes and reactions, the state of hunger and satiety, the desire to conserve energy and the interaction of all these mechanisms. It is the foundation for purposeful behavior and learning while creating cognitively highly developed models. 

### 2. Cerebellum.

The cerebellum is one of the oldest parts of the brain; it already appears in fish and is of the most important and fundamental importance for the evolutionary development of the nervous system. The main activity of the brain and the nervous system as a whole is motor actions. Even human speech and writing are primarily motor actions, even our thoughts when using “inner speech” are motor actions. The cerebellum makes motor acts more accurate and coordinated, it stores the memory of short time intervals, it is a chronometer and stopwatch of all motor actions. It has an amazing structure, neuroscientists call it a crystal. Strict rows of Purkinje cells and bundles of parallel fibers perpendicular to their plane have an amazing order in tissue organization, which cannot be compared with the tissue of other organs. Dealing with time requires precision and rigor.
Let's imagine that in our connectome editor we have created basic reflexes for a robot dog. He can stand, sit, walk and run, but it all works great in ideal conditions, on flat surfaces without external influences, shocks, winds and any defects in operation. This is where the virtual cerebellum comes to the rescue. It is easily integrated into our model, since it works as an add-on to motor signals from the central nervous system or unconditioned reflexes, it corrects signals depending on the prevailing external conditions, internal states and its memory.
The human brain contains 86 billion neurons and 60 billion of them belong to the cerebellum, predominantly most of the cerebellar neurons are very small, granular cells grouped into the nuclei of the cerebellum. These cells receive multiple signals from the basal ganglia - these are duplicate signals that control the muscles, and granular cells also receive signals from proprioception and the vestibular apparatus. Combining all these signals, the granular cells of the cerebellum, like Kenyon cells from the mushroom body, form a sparse “small” representative representation. Mutual inhibitory action leaves only a small number of neurons active, this population of active cells will represent a key. The fact is that there are countless possible variations and combinations of external and internal signals, so that the problem of a combinatorial explosion does not arise, it is necessary to represent all this in the form of a small representation, it is difficult to apply the term “small” to a representation of almost 60 billion cells. We need this size just for accuracy, in order to choose the correct adjustment of the signals that control the muscles.
Much is known about the cerebellum, the concept of a sparse representational representation has been used in mathematics and computer science for a long time, we know how it works, we need to use and implement it. Moreover, we can apply engineering analysis and optimize some aspects of the cerebellum. Motor acts are the basis of any cognitive mechanisms.
Imagine a technology where we create basic reflexes for a robot in a reactor, then we release it into a virtual or real environment filled with tests, it makes mistakes and falls, we help it get up and it tries again and again, and at the same time learn, correct those control signals that asked him initially.
Now there is an active development of anthropomorphic robots, and one of the most difficult tasks that engineers solve is the coordination of motor skills and balance control, why not use the solutions prompted by nature.

### 3. Hippocampus and cognitive maps

The hippocampus is an ancient formation; this area received special development in the first mammals. These animals began to settle in burrows, which means they needed to navigate the terrain well, they needed to find food away from their habitat, and then find their way back to it, they needed to know where the food source is, where the water source is, and where it is simply dangerous. The ability to operate with this knowledge is one of the first and fundamental cognitive functions of living organisms. The Nobel Prize for the study of place cells, grid cells, border cells, direction cells and other features of hippocampal neurons was awarded back in 2014. This is important knowledge that we can use in practice.
The concept of “place” for the nervous system, for the cognitive map is a combination of various signs from various sense organs. The “place” may smell of something, it may be wet or dry, it may be warm or cold, it may be full of bright greenery, or it may always be dark. Therefore, the hippocampus receives signals from all the senses, combines them and creates a sparse small representation. Doesn't it remind you of anything? If the schema works, then nature will use it in many places and forms. But in the case of the hippocampus, we will overlay this representative representation with a layer of grid cells, this layer will add some planarity to our data. Then a layer of direction cells, a layer of border cells, and as a result we get the activity of place cells - this will be a cognitive map. This is actually not all, we will supplement our cognitive map with a long-term potentiation mechanism for memorizing sequences. It is important not only to have the coordinates of the place, but also a marked path to this significant place. The nature of all this is studied in great detail.
Imagine a robot dog in a real or virtual environment, it easily moves over rough terrain thanks to the cerebellum model, this environment is quite intricate and complex, a cognitive map model will work in the robot’s nervous system, we will determine the importance of certain places for the robot ourselves when it will find and remember the path to them, we will be able to send the robot on tasks and this is without GPS (it may not be in large buildings), without creating models or scanning the area, the robot will find the path from memory.
The importance of this stage is not only in orientation to the terrain, but also in the fact that the cognitive map of the first mammals grows into an explicit memory. On the basis of which the first mammals build, remember, and reproduce the route to the watering place, Man uses, for example, to tell the story of his life with all its turns and iconic places and events.
It is also used as a boilerplate to construct complex maps of knowledge and most thinking process can be converged to navigating this knowledge space.

### 4. Cerebral cortex

From the point of view of evolutionary development, the appearance of the cerebral cortex was a big breakthrough. The cortex made it possible to more effectively process, store and structure information from the external environment. We all know the breakthrough successes of modern neural networks, but these models cannot be compared with the ability of the human brain to generalize and highlight the key patterns in the input data, which allows it to learn from a very small number of examples. In modern computer models of networks, there is the concept of a simple neuron, or adder. Back in the early 1960s, Thorsten Wiesel and David Hubel discovered so-called complex cells in the visual cortex of the cat. We can use the concept of complex neurons, create networks from them and train these networks according to completely different principles and rules that are different from those generally accepted in machine learning now. Work on this is being actively carried out, although at the moment the described networks are inferior in some metrics to networks based on the classical approach, but some significant advantages of the described approach are already being traced.
Complex neurons respond to complex stimuli, in particular, you can imagine a neuron (or a group of neurons) in your brain that will actively respond to the image of your grandmother, or just remembering her, we can find the corresponding neuron for almost every object, subject, symbol or concept . Imagine how convenient it is to use a neural network consisting of similar neurons, firstly, we can evaluate what the network is “thinking” about at the moment by the activity of neurons, we can understand how it makes decisions, we can manage these decisions simply by activating the necessary neurons.

### 5. Broca and Wernicke areas. Communication.

Speech is primarily a motor action. We learn to speak like we learn to control our own body. It all starts with cooing, repeating the same sounds, then individual words, then phrases, then sentences. A well-developed cerebellum greatly accelerates this process, it receives control signals from the motor area of ​​Broca's cortex. A part of the cortex called Wernicke area perceives and analyzes sound signals related to speech. The symbiosis of the work of these systems gives us the opportunity to speak and learn speech.
Speech is the main tool for the interaction of people with each other, and in the future with robots and artificial intelligence. We will come to this stage of our route map prepared in many respects. Everything we need to pass this stage we will get from the previous paragraphs. An AGI will literally go through the stages of speech development like a Human, starting with cooing, repeating and ending with the utterance of meaningful phrases.

### 6. Prefrontal cortex. Reasoning and planning.

It is believed that the prefrontal cortex is a highly developed olfactory bulb. This is a very vast area of ​​the cortex, neuroscientists call it the “great suppressor”. The fact is that the prefrontal cortex controls the deep, ancient areas of the brain responsible for emotions, instincts and needs. Control of animal instincts, will and self-control, long-term planning - this is what distinguishes Man from other animals. It is quite a realizable task to give these qualities to our associates to AGI. Even at the beginning of our journey, we laid the foundation for understanding the principles of the work of emotions, the mechanisms of needs and instincts, and with the receipt of an artificial model of the cortex, it will be possible to control behavior not only “from the bottom up” (instinct controls behavior), but also “from top to bottom” (consciousness, imagination and planning determines behavior).

The path described here turned out to be evolutionarily correct, which makes it quite stable and methodical. Each point will give us the technology to create very useful and in-demand products, as well as expand our knowledge about the nervous system and about ourselves.

## Morale of AGI:
We need to be very careful on the value systems of AI, that serves as a morale, and does not let it use its creative finding to do direct or collateral, intended or unintended harm.

* Improve the life of individual
* Improves the life of group.
* Improves the life of the organics.
* Follows the harmony of the universe

There is also a time Factor. So the solution should fit all the vectors, and work for most timescales, preferably for the current, but without digrading in the past.
The is also a certanty and risk factor, meaning whether it can be risky or not.
This evaluation happens as a part of the thinking process, until eventually it finds a solution.

## The human interaction and theory of mind
In the end, working with SAI will be reduced to bidirectional human interaction. While interacting with human, SAI should have some theory of mind of the person, ecaluate its intentions, current mood, and have a strong tendency to make good, using the framework. Apart from the firect request, the passive thinking process of SAI should be directed to improving the current state of human, according to the described values system, and suggest some solution if it finds one.

## Future FLUX goals
* Optmizing engine performance by using WebGPU and WebAssembly.
* RTC protocol for efficient interdevice networks
* Planetron - neuronal cloud-computing platform, joining all the developers in a single interconnected neural network
* Neuromorphic computing. Prototyping analog hardware to move on an integrated scheme